# CS 504 Project
Author: Nicole Mis
        misn15@bu.edu

## Project #1

In 2016, the worlds’ cities generated 2.01 billion tonnes of solid waste, amounting to a footprint of 0.74 kilograms per person per day. As the world continues to urbanize and grow in size, annual waste generation is expected to increase by 70% from 2016 to 2050, reaching 3.4 billion tonnes ([World Bank](http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/urbandevelopment/brief/solid-waste-management)).

For project one, I wanted to look at if some parts of Boston were healthier than others and if this was at least partly due to the environment. I retrieved median income from the Census Bureau, hazardous waste and oil sites from Massgov.org, health data from the Centers for Disease and Control, zipcode information from the Census Bureau, and crime data from Analyze Boston. I combined these data sets to see whether certain zipcodes within Boston contained more hazardous waste sites and if these sites were located in areas with more poverty and more health problems. Additionally, I thought it would be interesting to see whether these areas also had higher crime rates. After retrieving this data, I tried to match up Boston zipcodes with the number of hazardous sites, median income, crime rate, and health issues to see whether there was a correlation between these factors. By looking at the proximity of areas with high crime, poverty and health issues to these waste sites, we can possibly determine whether this is contributing to some of these areas problems. It is well known that there are higher crime rates in lower income areas but perhaps these areas are also located in undesirable parts of town and the environmental effects of the surrounding area are unknowingly making it unhealthier for its inhabitants and therefore, making it harder to live.
